Introduction:
Before we dive all the way into the Code, we are going to take am oment to improve your editor setup and overall producitvity.
Doing this now ill make thigsn much easier for you going forward. This lesson will give you some information about code style,
and then give you some tools to help you maintain consistent code-style throughout your projects. In some cases,
it can even helkp adjust things like indentation for you~
We will also introduce template repositoriies which can save you tgime setting up projects that shrae a lot of configuration with other projects.


Style uides:
Code Style is important! Having a consistent set of style rules for things such as indentation or
prefereed quote style makes your code more maintainable and easier to read. There are several popular javascrip wstylte guiedes on the net that
set standards for htes etypes of things, and al ittle time spent reading htem WILL make you a better developer.


Lesson Overview:
Linting The style guides we mentioned above are full of really hlepful advice for formatting, organizing adn composing your code.
But there are a LOT of rules, it can be difficult to internalizew them all. Linters are toolst hat wil scan your code with a set of style rulesand will rereport any errors to you that
they find. In some cases, they can even auto-fix the erros! The following articles explain in more detail the benefits of using a linter while you code.

JAVSCRIPT linters:
Javascrip tlinters are tools that you can use to help you debug yoru code.
They scan your scripts for common issues and errors, and giv eyou back a report with line numbers that you can use to fix things.
In addition to actual bugs and erors, theyalso check for subjective, stylistic prefernces as well.
Did you include a space between the funciton name and parenthesis? Did you use single or double quotes around Stings? Thing slike taht.

Linting Tools:
JSLIN: Highly opinionated and based on douglas crockford's javascrip: the good parts, it does not allow for much configuration:
JSHINT Comes loded with sensible defaults, but allows for a lot  more configuration than JSLINT
ESLINT: An extremely configurable linter taht also supportrs JSX adn CAN autoformat scripts to match your preffered code formatting styles.